So in the last lecture we installed a local server on our machine. And then we confirmed everything is working
fine by creating a dummy folder with an index.html file.
So now we need to install WordPress on this server. And to do that we will have to download the latest
copy WordPress.
So let's go to wordpress.org and make sure it's .org and not .com.
And all you have to do is just press downloads and it's a small download it's about 9 megabytes.
And as I'm recording this the latest version is 4.9.5. And if yours is different doesn't
matter just download the latest version.
So after downloading open the htdocs folder and then copy your WordPress zip file that you
just downloaded into this folder. And let us also unzip it.
And now we have a folder.
So this WordPress folder is gonna be the core of our website. And this folder only belongs to just
one WordPress website.
So if you want to develop another WordPress website, you're gonna have to repeat the same process again and
create a new WordPress folder. So one folder means one website.
So I think it's a good idea to rename the folder from WordPress to the particular website that we are
developing.
So in our case I'm gonna rename it to, I don't know, myfirsttheme maybe. So let's now try to visit our website on
localhost and then the 4 eights and then /myfirsttheme.
So we will be taken to an installation wizard. So you'll be asked to choose a language first
and then you will be asked to type some database information. So let's hit Continue.
And we haven't yet mentioned anything about how to manage databases in MAMP, right?
So let's discuss that briefly.
So in order to easily manage databases most PHP servers come with a web application called phpMyAdmin.
phpMyAdmin provides an interface to manage databases without writing any code. And to access phpMyAdmin
let's go to localhost and then our port and /phpmyadmin. And I'm already logged in here,
but ypu'll probably have to login. And for MAMP the default username and password are root, both are root. r double
o t.
So here we have the list of all databases that we have in MAMP.
So let's create a new one.
So let's click new and then just type the name of the database.
Let's call it
also myfirsttheme and let's click create and that's it.
So let's go back now
to the installation tab and let's carry on with our installation.
And here we'll have to type the database name and the username and password which are for me root and root.
And we won't have to change the host or the table prefix.
So let's just leave it like to.
And if you mistype anything you will get an error here.
But in our case  let's just run the installation. And here we'll have to type a Site Title, let's type My First Theme and
then a Username. Let's call it admin and a Password. Let's also call it admin for simplicity. And then type
your Email.
So let's install and if we switch back to phpMyAdmin now, we'll find that WordPress has populated our database
with some tables.
So let's go back now and login with admin admin. Our username and password.
And now you'll get the default WordPress admin dashboard.
And if you visit the actual website you will find, you know, a default theme. And to change it we can go
to Appearance and Themes and you'll find, you know, a bunch of default themes.
And now it's our job to create our own theme and we'll start doing that in the next lecture.